Do you think that had he stayed, he might have had a
winning record anyway? No, I think he, you see, he
had Crow and most of those good players graduated,
and I think, oh, I think he's the type of guy that
would have won somewhere, somehow or another, but
I think he'd have dropped back. He knew it. He was
smart enough to visualize it. Winning here
consistently wasn't in the books.
Well, then when Myers came in, how did things go
then? Well, it went pretty good. Jim,
like I say now, Jim was a good assistant coach, but
he didn't have the charisma for being a head coach.
I think he was a good assistant coach. had a good
background under Red Saunders. But you see, in
football, that's a pretty big task. And a man has to
be able to coach, be a head football coach. He has to
be able to visualize everything about it. Because
our assistant coach over here under Red Saunders,
our assistant coach under Bear Bryant is a
defensive coach. That wouldn't make me a head
coach, would it? Do you think Bear knew the whole
game well, that he was that much of an expert? No,
but he was smart enough to find out from other
people. Then he hired good people to handle each.
Well, and then he, as far as his defenses were
concerned, he never did put up a defense until he
conferred with Oklahoma coach Bud Wilkinson and
Jim Tatum of Maryland. Hmm. See? You see, when he
was here, he didn't pass any. See, his whole
offense has changed since he's been at Alabama. He
didn't like kick field goals either, did he? No. He
just believed in just blowing in and blowing them
out, and that was it. Three yards and a pile of dust.
He didn't have really anything in his offense at
all. He didn't pass very little.
But he got the job done.
got the job done.
How long did Myers stay here? Myers stayed here
about 54, let's see, Bryant left in 57, 58, 59, 60.
And then Fulberg come in? Fulberg came in in 61, 62,
63.
Stallings came in 65. So you became athletic
director again when Fulberg came in? No, when he
left. See, I hired Fulberg. He coached down here.
He was athletic director also? Yeah, also. See,
they wouldn't give me the athletic director job. I
don't know why, but I didn't make a difference to
me. It was only just an amount of money, but they
didn't. The only thing that made me feel good about
the whole thing is they hired me twice as athletic
director. So I must not have been too bad a guy.
Somebody was foolish and didn't know what they
were doing, I don't know. Well, I think they
probably had to admit that your administration
had been good, that you'd kept them in the black, so
to speak. Can you think of, during this whole
period, any major problems you had, financial,
otherwise, or things going pretty good? No,
things went along fairly good, and we always had a
surplus. And after 52 and 53, I finally, all this
money that we had went into the fiscal office. And
the fiscal office would take it and loan it out. And
finally, I talked them into buying us some
government bonds where we could get a little
interest off of it. But it was our money. They were
administering it, but it was our money. So I talked
them into buying some government bonds which we
got the interest off of. Now, all the money. It goes
in there, I put it on time deposit with the fiscal
office, I understand from wallet, and they get
earnings from it, you see. Mm-hmm. Get interest
from it. Mm-hmm. Were there any plans made at this
time? Were you making any long-range plans to know
that the stadium was expanded into 6667? Yeah, we
finally came in with expansion of the stadium.
When was this? Was this planned a long time in
advance? Well, no, it was...
It was planned after Stallings got there. Okay,
we'll get to that in a minute then. I was wondering
if you all had any long-range goals? No, what we
were trying to do, you see, at that time, the
college itself wasn't expanded. Yeah, I know. And
as far as our home attendance was concerned, we had
a stadium there that sat in a seat about 33. We used
to put seats around it. 34,000 or 5,000
spectators, and we didn't have anything. in
demand. Very seldom you ever see them. You always,
on football, you'd rather have too little than too
many.
Oh, my. And our attendance in those games were
fair, but there again we had these good teams that
we got money from, like Michigan, Ohio State, LSU,
and teams like that, which kept us in the black.
Mm-hmm. Hmm. How far ahead do you schedule games?
Could you tell us a little bit about how you go about
scheduling the game? Well, we usually have an
athletic director coaches meeting in January
every year at some designated place like New York,
Chicago, San Francisco. Everybody from all the
NCAA colleges. You get to know those fellas.
Really? You do. You get to know them pretty well.
And you go up there with your schedule in hand and
talk to those people. I say, I scheduled Army
twice, because we never had scheduled them. Had
never played them. Never played them, and that was
one of the dreams of Earl Rudder, to play Army. But I
don't think he lived to see it. No, he didn't.
And you go up there and you talk to them, just like a
convention, and you get with them. They have the
athletic director's meetings, and you get with
them, and you bring your schedule, and Ask them if
they'd like to play you. You just kind of go around
and buttonhole them then. That's right. And then
you write to them during the year and send them your
schedule and ask them if they'd be here. It seems
like we go to play these big teams. Is it for some
reason that at least we never seem to have any
problems scheduling large teams. Do they like to
play in them on their home turf? Yes. Were we
considered an easy mark or something? Well,
coaches are a little more what they call
non-conference games. They're a little bit more
reluctant to play a team if they think they can
beat. I'll put it that way. See, we never have.
We've played Michigan two or three times. Ohio
State at least twice. Twice. Never have beaten
them. Played USC, LSU. I think I talked to Marvin
the other day, and they've got Illinois coming in
here next year. Well, Illinois used to be a
powerhouse. I don't think they are now. And then
we've got Ole Miss coming in. Well, Clemson used to
be a powerhouse years and years ago. They're not
anymore. They're sort of a set-up team. And I don't
know anything about the other Kansas that we're
going to play or Washington. Eight years ago,
Washington was good. And, of course, Jim Owens
coached in Washington three, four, five years
ago. They had a great team. Mm-hmm. And Kansas had a
good team last year, but they lost their
quarterback. They'll be just a so-so team. We
ought to be able to win two out of our three
non-conference games, I think. I think right now
we're in the best position as far as material-wise
and depth that we've been in since I can remember.
Well, we might go on now and talk about, say, was
there anything that happened during the Myers era
that was interesting? No, nothing more. Jim
Jim was, I liked Jim, and we got along fine. And I
thought he did a fairly good job. Must be a fairly
decent coach. He's still at Dallas. Yeah, well,
he's an assistant coach. And he's, well, he's
obviously a specialist in one phase of the game. He
didn't know anything just between us boys. He
didn't know anything about offense or defense
either. what I could see. I mean, I've had
experience, 15 years of experience, of running
the whole thing in high school and some part of
colleges. But you can very easily, Jim, he was a
good line coach. As far as the technical part of
offense and defense, I don't think he was superb.
He had to depend upon his assistants. And then
Fulberg came in. What'd you think of Fulberg? This
is the first coach I remember here. Well, Fulberg,
you know, he had been here. I had hired him as a,
there you go again, you see. I had hired Fulberg in
52 as an end coach. He stayed here one or two years,
and then went to Florida. Then when he came in one of
them, he hired me again, see. Of course, he made him
athletic director again, see. I went through that
experience with all these coaches. Well, Fulberg
was all right there again. I think Fulberg made a
good athletic director. He did stay on one year,
didn't he? Well, he stayed on from December to
July. He was progressive and he had good ideas and
everything, but I don't think he was a head coach. I
don't think he had the...
A guy to be a head coach, that's his only job. That's
a big job.
be what you might call dedicated to that one
particular job and that's a 24-hour day job he's
got he's called upon for so many other things
outside of in other words he's a public relation
man and and the head coach and his biggest deal is to
hire people that know more than he does at
particular positions get what i'm talking about
the specialists Unless he does, that's, I think,
one of the main reasons why Darrell Waltz has been
so successful. He hasn't changed his coaches. And
he's had people under him that knew what they were
doing, and he kept them and paid them. I think
royally.
Of course, you might not agree with being an Aggie,
but I don't know. I don't see how you can argue with
success, though. Nothing succeeds like success.
Yeah. You know, watching Fulberg, I always
thought he built some fairly decent defensive
teams. Well, there again, it was the assistants.
Fulberg, he'd sit up in the stands a lot. I don't
think Fulberg was actually
interested in head coaching. He was more
interested in going ahead and being an athletic
director. I see. He didn't want that routine and
that work that was attached to it. Being a head
coach is a 12-month-a-year job. That's right. But
he was all right. Like I say again, there you are. I
went through it with good friends and everything.
But, of course, he was let go. I think Stallings had
a lot to do with that. Who, how did we get Gene
Stallings? How did? Well, two directors went out
and hired him. I shouldn't say that over the tape.
He was recommended by Barry Bryant. That's a good
recommendation. That's a good one. You can't go,
you can't beat that. Yeah. And he was recommended
to two of the board's directors. And of course,
being a young coach and having a fine background
and being the first assistant at Alabama,
and being an A&M player and a former student and
everything, it looked like he was, you know, he was
the right man.
And of course he came in here and things, I remember
that it was an exciting time. Things changed
around, it seemed. Oh yeah, he changed everything
around. And Gene was a personal friend of mine. I
like him fine. He's got lots on the ball. But some
people are growing some swell. Hellenfeld told me
he thought that Gene Stallings knew more about
football than anybody he'd ever met. Well, I
disagree with him. Why should Hellenfeld, the
contractor... Well, you know, everybody has an
opinion, and sometimes you think you're an expert
on everything.
Well, I disagree with him. Now, don't get me wrong,
I think he's a knowledgeable man, but I don't think
he knew more about football than anybody.
Because that's a hard thing to decide. Did he tell
you that, Sidney? Well, he got very mad about it
when that started. Of course, Mr. Peterson. I got
that impression. You talked to Peterson? No, I
talked to Mr. Heldenfeld, and I got the impression
that he really liked Gene Stallings, and that that
was a subject I wasn't to get into with him. That was
a very sore spot, so I didn't pursue it any further.
Gene would have been here today, and I told him. I
was athletic director then, and I told him. I did
everything in the world to help Gene. But his
biggest problem was that he couldn't get along
with the administration. I wasn't aware of that.
Huh? I wasn't aware of that. I thought maybe he had
more trouble with his boys than he did. No. I
shouldn't say this, because if he ever reads it,
he'll be on me. But instead, if problems would come
up, I would recommend to the council what to do. we
wanted to be done as athletic director. Then the
council would recommend to the president. The
president would OK it. In two or three days, the
president would call me and say, we're not going to
do it that way. And the reason for it was that Gene
would go around the president and go to two board
members. And the board members would bring
pressure on the president. I mean, Rutter didn't
like that. No, sir. I don't imagine he did, no. He'd
come to me, and I coached Rutter, and he'd come to me
and say, Bones, what were you going to do about that
boy down there? I said, don't ask me. I said, you
can't do anything with him. You think maybe this,
because Stallings was a reasonably young man, he
still had something to learn? He sure did. He was a
good Christian boy and everything, but he just
running roughshod over everybody. And you can't
run a rough shot over the athletic council and the
president of the institution. You're not going to
run a rough shot over Earl Rudd. Of course, he was
let... He was...
The Stallings, he was let go in... Seventy...
That's after Earl's death. Yeah, he was let go
in... Seventy-two. That was his biggest problem.
And Earl didn't like it. I'm going to tell you
something that President Williams told me. He
told me that when Earl, when he came here as
president of this institution, and Stallings
went to him and told him and said, Mr. Williams, I'm
glad that you're here, but you're not my boss. Now,
the president told me that with his own mouth. Now,
what would you do? That goes right back to the thing
I said. He couldn't get along with
administrations. They called me out there after I
retired. Mr. Butler, D. Butler was the chairman of
the Athletic Council. He said, what is the duties
of the Athletic Council? I said, you can just look
in the rule book there at Southwest Conference.
You can see what the rules are. I said, they have
direct supervision over all activities of the
athletic department, including the budgetary
and all other rules and regulations that are set up
that are passed on to the president for approval.
He called me out. He didn't want to know what the
athletic council had to do with him. And I said,
well, he's there, your boss. He just laughed at me
and told me, hey, don't know. I said, I'm a dean. I'm
not responsible to anybody around me except for
the board. Now, that was the reason. I don't know
whether that's going on tape. That's up to you. I
wouldn't put that on tape. But that's a true story.
That's interesting. I'm glad to know that. And
that's the reason Chris Gronman left here. He's
just one of the reasons they wouldn't take him off
the council. And he just decided he had to. And, oh,
yeah, fine fellow. Great personality, and I'm
still a good friend of his. Why should a fellow
just, like I said a while ago, some people grow and
some swell? He'd still be at A&M. The Helen fellow
didn't know that. Maybe that's a little bit of
immaturity on his part, something he'll outgrow.
Well, I imagine he's not telling the Lankers what
to do. Oh, I don't imagine so. He wouldn't tell
Brian what to do. I wouldn't put that in the script,
so if you... That's between me and you. That ought
to be...
Do you know anything about Ballard's hiring, the
selection? The president hired him. President
Williams hired him? He did all the searching
himself? Yeah. He got Bud Wilkinson...
to be, what do you mean, consultant? Yeah, that's a
good enough term. Consultant. To go out and
recommend somebody to him. And of course he picked
a good man to be. That's right. Was Bud Wilkerson
ever interviewed for a job here? No, I don't think
so. Of course he had thumbs down on it because he had
a bird nest on the ground up in Oklahoma. And he's
got a good one in television, too. That's right.
But Dr. Williams, I remember hearing him say that
he was going to pick the coach this time. That's
interesting.
I know there were a lot of rumors flying then. I was
in the service, and there was a rumor in the paper
they'd offered Charlie McClendon down there a
million dollars. Well, that's right. Now, there
again, the board got into that. Now, this is his
hearsay now. I'm going to tell you this story.
retired now, he had coached Charlie McKinnon in
some junior high school at some small college in
Arkansas, and he was pretty close to Charlie. And I
understand that he and two of the board members
flew out. Now this is hearsay. Hearsay, yeah.
There's no factual evidence on this. They flew out
to California to make this offer to Charlie, and
Charlie wouldn't accept it because he had a bowl
game coming up.
That is interesting. So I think Emery was the
choice of the administration. Have you had a
chance to watch any of his performances? Do you
think he's going to make a pretty good coach? I
think Emery's a very- Seems personable. Very
personable person, but I'm very on the farm 100%. I
belong to the Aggie Club and the Century Club, and I
support everything at A&M. And the quarterback
club, I do my share. There again, I'm just telling
you this, he better have a scoreboard in his face.
Oh, I think, and he may be foolish. I hope Emory
stays here for 100 years, because I like him. I'm
for him 100%. But if he comes up next year with a
fourth season, some of these book members will be
after him. You see, a board member, he's succeeded
in his profession. He thinks he's a success. And he
can't tolerate failure. Yes, I've run into that. I
know exactly what you mean. He can't tolerate
failure. Well, maybe then the board has become too
ingrown. In other words, we've got too many Aggies
on the board. I think that Mr. Emory, like I said, I
hope he stays there forever. And I think he's doing
a good job. And he's been given everything
possible to do it with. I mean, I can't say we didn't
give him this or gave him that. But there's still
some board members on there that will not tolerate
defeat. Oh, well, I'm well aware of people. I can
name them to you, but I'm not going to do it. Well,
that's maybe how they became successful, and
that's the way they are, that they... They drive
themselves and they drive everybody else like
they drive themselves. But when you get success,
it's not that you have been successful. They get
what they call smart. It's not altogether your
brains or your skill or anything, but anybody
that's made success in the world, he's had
somebody to help him. I don't care who you are. Even
the President of the United States, he's had to
with thousands of people helping him. And you
can't succeed without the help of other people.
And like I said before, you've got to be at the right
place at the right time and the right people
pulling for you, even in your job. You ought to take
over Lindsay's job one of these days. No, I'm in the
library. You're out of that, aren't you? We're
just trying to be everybody's friend and find out
what we can. Did you take journalism here? No, no,
I'm a historian. Oh, well, maybe you can help me
with my history. Well, if I can, I'd be glad to. You
know Charles Crawford? Do you know Professor
Crawford? Gosh, well, he's in the Rotary Club with
me. Well, Charlie Crawford is up there in the
archives, and that's where he writes. He's
writing the history of the engineering
department. And he's been up there for years. Of
course, mine will be a little bit different.
Because mine will be sort of a background on my
family, which I want to put in my life, which has
been interesting. Do you think that retiring in 67
as you went out with the Southwest Conference
Championship, that was a good time to retire, to go
out on a good note there? Yes, it was. I hadn't quite
reached 65 when Mr. Ruddard told me I could stay
here as long as I wanted to. But I'll be frank with
you, I had other things I wanted to do. And I was in a
position to where I didn't have to have a job.
That's a good position to be in. And secondly,
although Gene was a very personal friend of mine
and everything, I just got fed up with it. I mean,
just being knocked around and one thing or
another. I wasn't proud, but I had pride.
Certainly. And I was positioned where I didn't
have to. I'm not a rich man, but I'm comfortably
fixed. I am. I am. A couple little dumb questions.
They may not mean anything, but I've always
wondered about who chooses the uniforms that they
wear. We change uniforms every few years, and I've
always wondered what. Coaches. Every coach that
comes in here just wipes out all equipment, and
they start in again with their own design. Because
it seemed like when Gene Stallings came back, we
went back to sort of the Bear Bryant style again.
Yeah, the prettiest uniforms I ever had here was
when I came here as a freshman. They hadn't. gray
uniform with maroon stripes around it, and
blended in with a, I like that, that was mine, but
Harris changed it, Myers changed it, Fulberg,
see, Fulberg changed it, and Emory changed it,
Gene's changed it. See, I've been here under every
coach since Bible. Except Norton, I could have
been here under him, so I got a pretty good
surveillance of different coaches. I just
wondered that. It seemed like every time we got a
new coach, here came new uniforms and everything.
That's right. Coaches do that. And what
significance it has to the winning of the ball
games, I don't know. Of course, our colors are
maroon and white, and I've always thought that
just plain uniforms, a maroon jersey with white
numbers, with white pants, with It was very
conservative and very pretty. But when you start
putting in all this other stuff, that's high
school stuff. Yeah, I noticed. Now we go to the
stripes down the shoulders. I just, I don't know.
It's a coach's prerogative. And change from, say,
the maroon helmets to the white helmets now.
I'd always wondered about that. Well, you must
know my friend out there. What's his name? A
historian. He's a dean now. What's his name? A
young fella. He used to be a historian. Haskell
Monroe. Yeah, Haskell. Yes, I do. Is he still
studying history? He's a busy man. He's a vice
president of the university now. He used to be a
swiner. I used to know him for years. He's a good
history pro. He's a very, very, a man of a lot of
abilities, I imagine. Yeah. He teaches, I think,
one history course now, and the rest of his time is
in Old South, I believe. And I think most of his time
is now wound up in administration. He works under
Dr. Calhoun. They say now that Calhoun runs the
school. Is that right? The man of great influence,
let's say. He has a very responsible job. You
haven't got the thing on. Yeah, I've got it on. I can
turn it off. There.